# Data generation methodology
We generated stratified samples with provinces used as stratums.
The assumption of the existence of a list of addresses that are used as the sampling frame, 
is made to simplfy the data generation process.
The design followed is Stratified Simple Random Sampling (SRSWOR).
The overall sample size is set to n = 10,000 with overall stratum population
assummed to be N = 38,005,238 the current population Canadian population estimate as of
Q3 2020 ([source](https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=1710000901)).

## Data Generation Procedure.
First we will need the current populations for each province in Canada and a 'fake' list of
profiles. To do so we will scrape this [website](https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=1710000901)
and write the collected data to a .txt file. The profiles are generated by calling
the randomuser.me API, full documentation can be found [here](https://randomuser.me/documentation),
and writing the response to a .json file. To simplify this process we have create a python script that
takes care of all this for you. First you will need to have a proper Python 3.8+ installation, then install the dependencies
with the command 

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

then call the python script with a path to create the .txt and .json files, an example
of how to do this is:

```bash
python data_gen.py --dir='/your/path/to/directory'
```

for help on how to use this script you can call

```bash
python data_gen.py --help
```

Now with this data we can start generatig the actual simulation data for the survey. We recommend installing
(rstudio)[https://rstudio.com/], or using rstudio cloud, and using it for the following steps. Open modeling_script.R in rstudio or upload to rstudio cloud. 